When you have a workload that generates significant right load,
that doesn't need to be processed immediately.
You can use a buffer to smooth out demands on your task consumers.
Buffering uses a queue to accept messages or units of work from producers.
A message queue provides a lightweight buffer,
which temporarily stores messages and
endpoints that allow software components to connect to the queue,
in order to send and receive messages.
By using a buffer,
you can decouple the throughput rate of producers from that of consumers.
Amazon Simple Queue Service or SQS,
is a fully managed message queuing service,
that exposes an API to publish and consume messages.
Thereby, enables you to improve performance by decoupling and scaling microservices,
distributed systems, and serverless applications.
The messages are usually very small and can be things like requests,
replies, error messages, or just plain information like a status or location.
To begin the process of sending a message,
a component called a producer has a message to the queue.
The message is stored in the queue until another component called a consumer,
retrieves the message and performs the requested action.
Amazon SQS, also leverages the AWS cloud to dynamically scale based on demand.
SQS scales elastically with your application,
so you don't have to worry about capacity planning and pre-provisioning.
There is no limit to the number of messages per queue.
The standard queues provide nearly unlimited throughput.
SQS is a good solution for applications that need a task queue to
buffer messages for communication between
components in their application service infrastructure.
Like a batch of updates,
that need to be processed every hour.
AWS SQS is a stand alone service.
It can securely and reliably process messages independent of other services.
So their lack of availability or busyness doesn't affect how it processes it's queue.
SQS offers two types of message queues.
Standard queues offer high throughput,
best effort ordering and guarantee delivery.
This will be great for an application like credit card processing.
SQS FIFO queues or First-In-First-Out queues,
ensure that messages are processed
once and in the exact order that they are sent to the queue.
So a process like allowing a user to order
a ride share after verifying their destination and payment information,
or processing orders for a hot new sneaker,
so that the people who ordered first are confirmed first,
would be great applications for a FIFO queue.
SQS is a good solution for applications that need a task queue to
buffer messages for communication between
components in their application service infrastructure.